---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Solana

Security has been an integral part of Código AI Generator from the beginning. This document will go through the security checks generated and how to execute the security test cases. 

## Verify Signers

This security check is generated by default for all methods defined in the CIDL. You can find the usage of this verification in the `processor.rs` file of the generated smart contract within each function that starts with `process_`. 

```
verify_signers(&[fee_payer_account_info])?;
```

If you execute the test case for this security check, you will see the following output:

```
test sec_utils::tests::it_test_verify_signer_address_is_ok ... ok
test sec_utils::tests::it_test_verify_signers_is_ok ... ok
```

The implementation for `verify_signers` is located at: `codigolib/src/sec_utils.rs`. The developer doesn’t require to do anything to enable this security check.

## Verify Ownership

Is generated by default for all accounts used within a method. You can find the usage of this verification in the `processor.rs` file of the generated smart contract within each function that starts with `process_`. 

```
verify_ownership(
    &Pubkey::from_str(&"11111111111111111111111111111111").unwrap(),
    &[author_account_info],
)?;
verify_ownership(
    program_id,
    &[post_account_info],
)?;
```
If you execute the test case for this security check, you will see the following output:
```
test sec_utils::tests::it_verify_ownership_is_ok ... ok
```

The implementation for `verify_ownership` is located at: `codigolib/src/sec_utils.rs` To configure the owner of an account within the CIDL, we need to define the solana extension to the data type, and within the extension define the property `owner`. The property `owner` allow values to be `self` or a static public key. If the property `owner` is omitted, it will default to `self`. For example:

```
types:
  AccountWithoutOwnerSet:
    fields:
	- name: index
	  type: u8
  AccountWithSelfOwner:
    solana:
      owner: self
    fields:
	- name: index
	  type: u8
  AccountWithStaticPublicKey:
    solana:
      owner: 2SVR8inD9PjWMvAgAyCYxE49nUnG5GjXtRWRGow61ArC
    fields:
	- name: index
	  type: u8
```

## Verify PDA

The verify PDA Is generated by default for all PDA accounts used within a method. You can find the usage of this verification in the `processor.rs` file of the generated smart contract within each function that starts with `process_`. 

```
verify_pda(
    post_account_info,
    &[
        b"post",
        &author_account_info.key.to_bytes(),
        &post_seed_index.to_le_bytes(),
    ],
    &Posts::get_declared_owner_or_default(*program_id),
)?;
```
If you execute the test case for this security check, you will see the following output:
```
test sec_utils::tests::it_test_verify_pda_is_ok ... ok
```
The implementation for `verify_pda` is located at: `codigolib/src/sec_utils.rs`. The developer doesn’t require any additional steps to enable this verification. The verification is done based on the seeds’ definition. From the above verification, the CIDL that produced it was:
```
types:
  Posts:
    solana:
      seeds:
        - name: post
        - name: user
          type: sol:pubkey
        - name: index
          type: u16
    fields:
      - name: title
        type: string
        solana:
          attributes: [ cap:96 ]
```
## Verify Account Length
Is generated by default for all accounts used within a method. You can find the usage of this verification in the `processor.rs` file of the generated smart contract within each function that starts with `process_`. 
```
verify_len(User::LEN, &[author_account_info])?;
```
If you execute the test case for this security check, you will see the following output:
```
test sec_utils::tests::it_test_verify_len_is_ok ... ok
```
The implementation for `verify_len` is located at: `codigolib/src/sec_utils.rs`. The developer doesn’t require any additional steps to enable this verification. The verification is done based on the fields’ definitions. From the above verification, the CIDL that produced it was:
```
types:
  User:
    summary: Through this data structure, we will store the user information; a user can create or comment on posts
    fields:
      - name: display_name
        type: string
        solana:
          attributes: [ cap:36 ]
      - name: posts
        type: u16
```

## Executing the Test Cases

After you have generated the Solana smart contract, you will see in the generated directories, a directory named `codigolib`. Open a new terminal by going to Terminal -> New Terminal and navigate to the `codigolib` directory. In the `codigolib` directory, execute the `cargo test` command. This command will execute all the available test cases.

## Next steps

**Congratulations!** 🎉👏 at this point, you should have a basic understanding of security checks generated for a solana contract. To summarize what we learned:

- Código AI Generator guarantees the generation of security checks, even if the developer doesn’t specify it.
- We generate the test cases for all security checks.
- We can execute the test cases by going to the `codigolib` directory and typing the command `cargo test`

These links may help you on your journey to writing smart contracts with the CIDL:
- [Learning the Basic](https://docs.codigo.ai/cidl/Learning%20the%20Basics)
- [Building Solana Programs with CIDL: A Comprehensive Guide Part I](https://docs.codigo.ai/guides/guide-1)

### Join the Código community 💚
Código is a growing community of developers. Join us on **[Discord](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdSG0OgJ5xuwwU7JiSGBdn01L3ID68qNCd2HAnFSztXVYKmBg/viewform)** and **[GitHub](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdGDGH4bwQf5dX3-uFCYeRKzIGbd5dVEPxHKQPTt63bBVVcVQ/viewform)** 
