# Overview

Código is an AI-Powered Code Generation Platform for blockchain developers and web3 teams that saves development time
and increases the security of the code across a variety of blockchains.

## Código Interface Description Language (CIDL)

The starting point for blockchain developers using the Código platform is the Código Interface Description Language (
CIDL). The CIDL is a formal language used to describe the interface of a blockchain smart contract. It specifies the
data types, functions, and events that can be accessed by other contracts or users. The CIDL is accessible from a
developer’s IDE or from Código’s web-based IDE.

## Code Generation

Using the CIDL, Código Generator engines automatically generate Smart Contract boilerplate source code, Smart Contract
Clients libraries, testing and Documentation in multiple programming languages. The source code is delivered in the
developers’ IDE or in Código’s web-based IDE, organized in clearly labeled libraries following software development best
practices and resulting in weeks of development time saved by blockchain developers.

## Security

Código ensures that the code can run and is secure through comprehensive testing. Código has checks for all variables
and parameters, signatures and ownership of the data. In addition, Código’s source code is externally audited from one
of the two leading blockchain security firms, providing an additional layer of vetting of the code to developers.

## Blockchains

Código currently supports Solana. The Código platform has been architected with the explicit objective of supporting any
blockchain. Código will add additional blockchains on a regular basis.

## Programming Languages

Código currently generates client code in TypeScript. The Código platform has been architected with the explicit
objective of supporting many programming languages. Código will add additional programming languages on a regular basis.

## Applications

There are no limitations to the types of applications that can be built through the CIDL. The CIDL can enable any use
case, such as creating decentralized applications that interact with multiple smart contracts, creating decentralized
finance applications that allow for the exchange of tokens or assets across different platforms, or creating supply
chain management systems that allow for the tracking of goods across multiple stakeholders. In general, the CIDL can
help facilitate the creation of simple smart contracts, all the way to complex, interconnected systems, that can operate
in a decentralized and transparent manner.

## Solutions

Código is committed to providing an expanding range of solutions that provide blockchain developers with productivity
boosts through automation, security and flexibility of development.

The current solution:

1. **Generates “Smart Contract” boilerplate and stubs**

   Código Generators abstract all the initialization, validation, verification and parsing for each incoming request,
   and route the call to the specific stub method.

2. **Generates Client Libraries**

   Código Generators simplify Smart Contract adoption by generating “Smart Contract” client libraries in multiple
   programming languages. Method calls are abstracted behind a simple API interface. All the boilerplate code to
   generate the actual Blockchain Smart Contract call is automatically generated by Código Generators for each
   programming language.

3. **Generates web-based documentation**

   Código Generators create full web-based Smart Contract documentation based on the CIDL file. This documentation will
   list all exposed methods by the Smart Contract and input parameters. For Account based VMs, like Solana, full account
   structure is documented as well. The details of the documentation are an integral part of the CIDL file.

4. **Generate all the test cases and provide an external security audit guarantee**

   Código adds automatic checks for all variables and parameters, the platform also checks the signatures and the actual
   ownership of the data.

## Join the Código community 💚

Código is a growing community of developers. Join us on
**[Discord](https://discord.gg/8XHQGS832k)**
and **[GitHub](https://github.com/Codigo-io)**

#### Documentation detectives wanted! If you've spotted any gaps or have suggestions to level up our documentation game, we'd love to hear from you!

[![Button Example]][Link]
[Link]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeiSwnKQ8zu5GC5bB0w2HQCAiwqSCi_9HeD9Cp5Lxq761_Y1A/viewform
[Button Example]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Feedback-FD971F?style=for-the-badge


